# OOPSLA 2021 Artifact

## Getting Started

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and start up the 
docker daemon, either 
[manually](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-manually)
or through the 
[system utility](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-using-operating-system-utilities).

2. Pull the docker image:

```sh
docker load < oopsla21ae.tar.gz
```

3. Start a docker container like so: 

```sh
docker run -it --cap-add=sys_nice --name artifact oopsla21ae
```

4. Make rust tools available in the environment: 

```sh
source ~/.cargo/env
```

5. Test that the artifact works by running: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver.py --figure1 --figure59 --figure7table3
```

This command should complete in under an hour.

## Step by Step Instructions

All of the following commands should be run from the `~/oopsla21ae/` directory. 
Running all experiments fully takes almost two days to complete. 
We have therefore implemented a fast path that can run all experiments 
(on fewer libraries and applications) and finishes in under an hour. 
Our driver runs the fast path by default, so to run the full version of experiments, 
run: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver.py [OPTIONS] --full
```

To run the __fast__ path on _all_ experiments, run: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver.py --all
```

To run the __full__ path on _all_ experiments, run: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver.py --all --full
```

### Generating results/plots

To run individual experiments, simply replace `--all` with the flag corresponding 
to the desired experiment, found by running: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver.py --help

  ...
  --figure1           generate figure 1
  --table1            generate table 1
  --figure59          generate figures 5 and 9
  --figure7table3     generate figure 7 and table 3
  --table4            generate table 4
  --figure8           generate figure 8
  ...
```

To generate Figure 7 and Table 3, for example, run the following: 

```sh
python3 ExpDriver --figure7table3 [--full]
```

Expected running times for all experiments on a 
2.3 GHz Dual-Core Intel Core i5 Macbook Pro
are listed here:  

| | Figure 1 | Table 1 | Figures 5 and 9 | Figure 7 and Table 3 | Table 4 | Figure 8 | Total |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fast | 20 min | - | 40 min | 2 min | - | - | 1 hr |
| Full | 7 hrs | 20 min | 9 hrs | 20 min | 1 hr | 1 hr | ~19 hrs |

### Viewing results/plots

Some expected output is in `example-results`; you can compare your generated plots to those as a sanity check. 
The above result/plot generalization produces a series of PDFs that can be copied out of the docker container and 
viewed locally. If the container is currently running, get the container ID by running: 

```sh
docker container ps

CONTAINER ID    IMAGE                COMMAND  CREATED  STATUS   PORTS   NAMES
<container_id>  npopescu/oopsla21ae  ...      ...      ...              artifact
```

If the container is stopped, get the 
container ID by running: 

```sh
docker container ps -a
```

Copy files locally using the `docker cp` cmd: 

```sh
docker cp <container_id>:/home/oopsla21ae/images/<plot.pdf> <local_dest>
```

Where <plot.pdf> is any of the files listed in the below subsections (for example `figure1_all.pdf`). 
Note that Tables 1 and 4 do not generate any PDF files; the output that would be in a PDF is instead 
printed to the terminal as the scripts run. Therefore, we recommend generating these results separately 
so they can be properly viewed. 

In general, the figures and tables produced here are analogous to the figures and 
tables presented in the paper. We describe how to interpret results below, but 
also refer reviewers to the paper for more detailed information. 

#### Figure 1

```sh
figure1_all.pdf
figure1_histogram.pdf
figure1_hurt.pdf
figure1_improved.pdf
figure1_insignificantly_affected.pdf
```

Figure 1 results are generated by benchmarking 7 Rust libraries that are in the 
top 250 most downloaded Rust libraries from `crates.io`. These 7 libraries use 
unchecked indexing direct and also come with their own benchmarking suites. 
We compile two versions of each library, one with unchecked indexing and one 
where unchecked indexing is converted to checked indexing, to effectively measure 
the overhead of _checked_ indexing (i.e. bounds checks). 

We find that overhead of checked indexing is not fixed and more specifically, 
that checked indexing does not always hurt performance. `figure1_improved.pdf` 
shows the benchmarks where bounds checks cause speedups, and `figure1_insignificantly_affected.pdf` 
shows benchmarks where bounds checks have no significant effect on performance 
at all. For comparison, `figure1_hurt.pdf` shows the benchmarks where bounds checks 
do hurt performance, and all results are summarized in `figure1_all.pdf` and 
`figure1_histogram.pdf`.

#### Table 1

Table 1 results are generated by benchmarking two versions of a 
[Rust implementation](https://github.com/dropbox/rust-brotli-decompressor) of the 
brotli decompression algorithm in three different contexts. The two versions
of `rust-brotli` are one with unchecked indexing and one where unchecked 
indexing is converted to checked indexing. The three contexts are: 

   * A baseline context: rustc 1.52, compression level = 5
   * A different workload: rustc 1.52, compression level = 11
   * A different compiler: rustc 1.46, compression level = 5

See [this](https://github.com/nataliepopescu/oopsla21-artifact#paper-claims-not-supported-by-artifact) 
section for why our table is missing the `different architecture` column. 

In each context, we effectively measure the overhead of checked indexing by 
benchmarking the two versions of `rust-brotli` and recording the relative 
performance differences. We claim that different contexts further complicate the 
performance impacts of checked indexing. Different checked indexing overheads 
in these different contexts show that this is indeed the case. 

#### Figures 5 and 9

```sh
figure5.pdf
figure9.pdf
```

Figure 5 explores the potential heuristics for reintroducing bounds checks. 
Figure 5 is generated by running `rust-brotli` benchmark with only unchecked indexing, 
and iteratively converting them to checked indexing in an order specified by one 
of four heuristics: random, hotness-based, one-checked, and one-unchecked. 
The goal of these different orders is to maximize the amount of unchecked indexing 
converted to checked indexing within a certain threshold (i.e. the farther away from 
random the better). We claim that the hotness heuristic with one-checked at the 
end performs better than the rest. This is shown in the results by an orange line (hotness) that 
hugs the x axis longer than the rest until the light blue (one-checked) line 
surpasses it, thus overall reintroducing more checks while staying below the 
threshold. 

Figure 9 confirms that hotness + one-checked performs better than just hotness 
(and better than random) through a fully-automated run of the heuristic-based 
NADER on `rust-brotli`. The line that hugs the x axis longest introduces the most 
bounds checks within the threshold. 

#### Figure 7 and Table 3

```sh
figure7.pdf
table3.pdf
```
  
Figure 7 results are generated by counting unchecked indexing across a set of 
manually, but systematically, chosen applications. Concretely, for each application, 
uses of direct unchecked indexing (within the application itself) and indirect 
unchecked indexing (in the application's dependencies) are counted and displayed as a bar 
chart. We claim that there are _many_ more instances of indirect unchecked indexing than 
there are of direct unchecked indexing: for every direct unchecked indexing operation an 
application uses we calculated there are on average 86 indirect unchecked indexing operations 
in the dependencies! This also supports our claim that unchecked indexing is difficult to 
audit because most of it is in project dependencies. 
  
Table 3 results build off Figure 7 by also including the total number of application dependencies 
and the number of dependencies that have at least one unchecked indexing use. 

Note that we do not include the full set of applications that we evaluated in the paper 
due to an error with building our docker image that we were unable to resolve in time. 

#### Table 4

Figure 4 goes through the four steps of NADER and shows that for many applications, 
most, if not all, bounds checks can be reintroduced with little-to-no overhead. 
For each application, NADER first checks that it uses any unchecked indexing (directly or 
indirectly). If not, then the application has as many bounds checks as it can 
with no extra overhead, and NADER is done. 

If the application does use unchecked 
indexing, NADER performs a coarse filtering step by comparing the generated binaries 
of two versions of the application (one with unchecked indexing and one where the 
unchecking indexing has been converted to checked indexing). If the binaries are the 
same, then _in this context_ the unchecked indexing binary is as safe as the 
checked indexing one, again with no extra overhead, and NADER is done. 

Thirdly, NADER measures the maximum possible overhead of checked indexing between the two 
binary versions. If this maximum overhead falls below the threshold, then NADER converts 
all unchecked indexing to checked indexing, and the number of reintroduced bounds checks 
is maximized. 
  
Finally, if the maximum possible overhead is larger than the desired threshold, NADER performs 
an exploration phase to determine the largest set of bounds checks it can reintroduce 
within the threshold. See more about this step [here](https://github.com/nataliepopescu/oopsla21-artifact#figures-5-and-9). 
  
Importantly, NADER maximizes the number of bounds checks reintroduced while staying 
below the specified threshold by construction. Table 4 illustrates this on several 
applications. 

#### Figure 8

```sh
figure8.pdf
```
  
Figure 8 confirms that hotness + one-checked performs better than just hotness 
(and better than random) through a fully-automated run of the heuristic-based 
NADER on `COST`. The line that hugs the x axis longest introduces the most 
bounds checks within the threshold. 

### Paper claims _not_ supported by artifact

1. The "Different Architecture" column in Table 1 is not supported by our artifact because 
the reviewers may not have access to two or more different architectures on which to 
run our experiments. 

1. The last column of Table 3 is also not supported by our artifact because it was 
the result of a manual process. We moved forward with applications that had 
reasonable synthetic profiling workloads, although there is room for a more 
rigorous process of elimination here. 

### Functional Badge Requirements
  
- Artifact supports all major claims made by paper (outlined in this document by all of the Figures and Tables)
- Artifact documents detailed steps for result reproduction and lists any potential deviations from what the paper claims
  
Deviations: 
  
- All but Figure 7 and Table 3 are performance results and will vary, but we describe trends and patterns to look for
- A full evaluation takes almost 19 hours, but we offer reviewers a fast path that can complete in about an hour
  
### Reusable Badge Requirements
  
- Future researchers can run this artifact on more libraries and applications by cloning their source code here
- Future researchers building off this artifact can do so by adding new benchmarks and their arguments
- Future researchers can directly modify `Nader.py` to improve its exploration algorithm
- Artifact source code can be reused as separate components much in the same way as the individual plots are generated 
- Others can learn about our benchmarking and large-scale application analysis techniques
- Others can extend the artifact beyond bounds checks to other code patterns by modifying `regexify.py`
