README.md, before:

# OOPSLA 2021 Artifact

## Getting Started Guide

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and start up the 
docker daemon, either 
[manually](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-manually)
or through the 
[system utility](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-using-operating-system-utilities).

2. Build the docker image (TODO publish image so it can just be downloaded in this step): 

```sh
docker build --tag oopsla21-nader .
```

3. Run a docker container using the image you just built: 

```sh
docker run -it -p 8050:8050 --name artifact oopsla21-nader
```

Once in the docker container you can begin using the artifact.

## Step by Step Instructions

### Paper claims supported by artifact

1. To reproduce Figure 1: 

```sh
$ python3 tool.py --dir fig1 --compile --bench {num_runs} --local
```

When the above command has finished, you can visualize the results by running: 

```sh
$ python3 result_presenter.py
```

and opening the listed webpage in your browser.

1. To reproduce Table 1... 

1. To reproduce Figure 5...

1. To reproduce Figure 7...

1. To reproduce Table 3...

1. To reproduce Table 4... 

1. To reproduce Figure 9...

### Paper claims _not_ supported by artifact

1. "Different Architecture" column in Table 1...

2. Figure 8...

Commit message:

move fig1/7 code to this repo

README.md, after:

# OOPSLA 2021 Artifact

## Getting Started Guide

1. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and start up the 
docker daemon, either 
[manually](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-manually)
or through the 
[system utility](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/#start-the-daemon-using-operating-system-utilities).

2. Build the docker image (TODO publish image so it can just be downloaded in this step): 

```sh
docker build --tag oopsla21-nader .
```

3. Run a docker container using the image you just built: 

```sh
docker run -it -p 8050:8050 --name artifact oopsla21-nader
```

Once in the docker container you can begin using the artifact.

## Step by Step Instructions

### Paper claims supported by artifact

All of the following commands will assume that you start in the root directory
of this repository. 

1. To reproduce Figure 1: 

```sh
$ cd figure1/ && python3 tool.py --dir fig1 --compile --bench {num_runs} --local
```

Where we suggest that {num_runs} = 2 or 3 ({num_runs} == 1 takes about X time to finish). 
Then you can visualize the results by running: 

```sh
$ python3 result_presenter.py
```

and opening the listed webpage in your browser.

1. To reproduce Table 1... 

1. To reproduce Figure 5...

1. To reproduce Figure 7 and all but the last column of Table 3, run: 

```sh
$ cd figure7/ && python3 uncover_uncheckeds.py --root apps
```

which should take about 10 minutes to complete. 

1. To reproduce Table 4... 

1. To reproduce Figure 9...

### Paper claims _not_ supported by artifact

1. "Different Architecture" column in Table 1...

1. Last column of Table 3...

1. Figure 8...
